>> Woodruff: THE FIGHT FOR THE
FUTURE OF UKRAINE ESCALATED
TODAY, WELL-ARMED MEN, ALLEGED
TO BE RUSSIAN FORCES, TOOK
CONTROL OF TWO AIRPORTS IN
CRIMEA...
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED MOSCOW
NOT TO INTERVENE.
THE UNITED STATES WILL STAND
WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY IN AFFIRMING THERE
WILL BE COSTS FOR MILITARY
INTERVENTION IN UKRAINE.
>> GOOD EVING,EN I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, MILES O'BRIEN
VENTURES DEEP INSIDE ONE OF THE
WORLD'S MOST HAZARDOUS PLACES:
JAPAN'S FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT,
STILL MIRED IN TROUBLE THREE
YEARS AFTER ITS CATASTROPHIC
MELTDOWNS.
>> RESEMBLING ASTRONAUTS ON THE
WAY TO A FULLY FUELED ROCKET, WE
DONNED SPECIAL SHOES AND HARD
HATS, THEN BOARDED A BUS THAT
WOULD GET US AS CLOSE TO THE
MELTDOWNS AS THE LAWS OF
PHYSICS, AND COMMON SENSE, WOULD
ALLOW US.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE TO
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS A DAY OF
DEEPENING CRISIS IN CRIMEA, AMID
GROWING SIGNS OF A POSSIBLE BID
TO BREAK AWAY FROM UKRAINE.
UKRAINIAN LEADERS ACCUSED RUSSIA
OF A MILITARY INVASION AND
OCCUPATION OF CRIMEA.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT
KWAME HOLMAN HAS OUR REPORT ON
THE DAY'S EVENTS.
>> Reporter: THE SITUATION IN
CRIMEA APPROACHED A DANGEROUS
PIVOT POINT, AS UKRAINE'S NEW
GOVERNMENT ACCUSED RUSSIAN
FORCES OF TAKING OVER TWO
AIRPORTS, A COAST GUARD STATION
AND A BORDER POST.
AT A ROADBLOCK NEAR ONE AIRPORT,
THIS MAN SAID HE HAD NO IDEA WHO
THE ARMED MEN WERE, BUT THEY
QUICKLY SET UP A SECURITY
PERIMETER.
>> ( translated ): THEY ARRIVED
AROUND 10:00 P.M. RIGHT THERE A
MACHINE GUN WAS INSTALLED.
THE TRUCKS PASSED THROUGH AND
IMMEDIATELY TOOK CONTROL OF THE
WHOLE AREA; ARMED MEN JUMPED OUT
FROM THE TRUCKS.
>> Reporter: THE CRIMEAN
PENINSULA IS A BASTION OF
SUPPORT FOR MOSCOW, AND IS HOME
TO RUSSIA'S BLACK SEA NAVAL
FLEET.
THE FLEET COMMAND DENIED THE
WELL-ARMED, UNIFORMED MEN ON
PATROL WERE IN FACT RUSSIAN
TROOPS, BUT RUSSIAN MILITARY
VEHICLES WERE SEEN OUTSIDE THE
BASE, A POSSIBLE VIOLATION OF
LONGSTANDING REGULATIONS.
BY LATE TODAY, THE GUNMEN HAD
EXTENDED THEIR HOLD ON THE MAIN
AIRPORT, AND UKRAINE'S LARGEST
AIRLINE SAID AIRSPACE OVER
CRIMEA WAS NOW CLOSED.
IN KIEV, THE NEW INTERIOR
MINISTER CALLED IT AN ARMED
VASIINON, AND THE ACTING
PRESIDENT WARNED AGAINST OUTSIDE
INTERFERENCE.
>> ( translated ): ACCORDING TO
ESTABLISHED AGREEMENTS, WE
DEMAND FROM ALL COUNTRIES
GUARANTEES TO CONFIRM IN
PRACTICE ACTIONS TO RESPECT THE
INDEPENDENCE, SOVEREIGNTY AND
BORDERS OF UKRAINE AND TO
REFRAIN FROM USING FORCE AGAINST
UKRAINE'S TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY
OR POLITICAL INDEPENDENCE.
>> Reporter: HE LATER SAID
RUSSIA WAS FOLLOWING THE SAME
STRATEGY IT USED IN THE RUN-UP
TO WAR WITH GEORGIA IN 2008; AND
HE URGED RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN TO CEASE WHAT HE
CALLED PROVOCATIONS.
BUT LARGE-SCALE RUSSIAN MILITARY
MANEUVERS CONTINUED JUST ACROSS
THE BORDER ON RUSSIAN SOIL.
AND A RUSSIAN NAVAL VESSEL TOOK
POSITION AT THE ENTRANCE TO A
HARBOR THAT LEADS TO SEVASTOPOL
AND THE RUSSIAN BLACK SEA FLEET
>> Reporter: IN WASHINGTON,
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY SPOKE
WITH RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGEI LAVROV BY PHONE.
KERRY SAID LAVROV
ASSURED HIM THAT MOSCOW HAS
NO DESIGNS ON UKRAINE.
>> I MADE IT CLEAR THAT
INTERVENTION WOULD, IN OUR
JUDGEMENT, BE A VERY GRAVE
MISTAKE.
I NEVERTHELESS, MADE IT
CLEAR THAT THAT COULD BE
MISINTERPRETED AT THIS
MOMENT AND THAT THERE ARE
ENOUGH TENSIONS THAT IT IS
IMPORTANT FOR EVERYBODY TO
BE EXTREMELY CAREFUL NOT TO
INFLAME THE SITUATION AND
NOT TO SEND THE WRONG
MESSAGES.
HE REAFFIRMED TO ME THAT
PRESIDENT PUTIN IS COMMITTED
AND THAT AS A MATTER OF
POLICY, THEY DO NOT INTEND
TO VIOLATE THE SOVEREIGNTY
OF UKRAINEMENT.
>> AND THIS AFTERNOON THE
UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL MET TO DISCUSS
UKRAINE.
>> MEANWHILE THE DEPOSED
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE VIKTOR
YANUKOVYCH RENEWED HIS CLAIM
ON THAT POST TODAY IN HIS
FIRST PUBLIC APPEARANCE
SINCE HE FLED KIEV LAST
FRIDAY.
HE CALLED THE PENDING MAY 25
ELECTIONS ILLEGITIMATE, AND THE
INTERIM UKRAINIAN  LEADERSHIP
BANDITS, SPEAKING IN THE RUSSIAN
CITY OF ROSTOVONDON, HARD BY THE
UKRAINIAN BORDER.
>> ( translated ): I INTEND TO
CONTINUE TO FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE
OF UKRAINE AGAINST THOSE WHO ARE
TRYING TO SEIZE IT WITH THE HELP
OF FEAR AND TERROR.
AND I DECIDED TO ANNOUNCE IT
PUBLICLY.
NOBODY OUSTED ME.
I WAS FORCED TO LEAVE UKRAINE
UNDER A DIRECT THREAT TO MY LIFE
AND THE LIVES OF MY RELATIVES.
>> Reporter: HE BLAMED THE WEST
FOR CREATING UNREST, AND
INSISTED HE HAD NOT ORDERED
RIOT POLICE TO SHOOT PROTESTERS
IN KIEV, WHEN MORE THAN 80 WERE
KILLED.
VIDEO EVIDENCE LAST WEEK SHOWED
HEAVILY-ARMED, UNIFORMED
SECURITY FORCES FIRING LIVE
AMMUNITION IN KIEV'S CENTRAL
SQUARE.
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED
TODAY THEY'RE SEEKING TO
EXTRADITE YANUKOVYCH FROM RUSSIA
TO STAND TRIAL FOR ORDERING
THOSE KILLINGS.
AND SWITZERLAND, AUSTRIA AND
LIECHTENSTEIN MOVED TO FREEZE
THE BANK ACCOUNTS OF YANUKOVYCH
AND HIS SON.
SWISS PROSECUTORS  ALSO
ANNOUNCED YANUKOVYCH IS BEING
INVESTIGATED FOR ALLEGED MONEY
LAUNDERING.
THE APPARENT SPOILS OF HIS RULE
WERE ON DISPLAY LAST WEEK, AS
PROTESTERS WANDERED THROUGH A
VACANT, GARISHLY-LAVISH PALACE
THAT HE'D HAD BUILT FOR HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff: LATE TODAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED THAT
THERE WILL BE COSTS FOR ANY
OUTSIDE INTERVENTION IN UKRAINE.
SPEAKING IN THE WHITE HOUSE
BRIEFING ROOM, HE SAID THE
UNITED STATES IS "DEEPLY
CONCERNED" BY REPORTS OF RUSSIAN
MILITARY MOVEMENTS.
>> ANY VIOLATION OF UKRAINE'S
SOVEREIGNTY OR TERRITORIAL
INTEGRITY WOULD BE DEEPLY
DESTABILIZING, WHICH IS NOT IN
THE INTEREST OF UKRAINE, RUSSIA
OR EUROPE.
IT WOULD REPRESENT A PROFOUND
INTERFERENCE IN MATTERS THAT
MUST BE DETERMINED BY THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE.
IT WOULD BE A CLEAR VIOLATION OF
RUSSIA'S COMMITMENT TO RESPECT
THE INDEPENDENCE, SOVEREIGNTY
AND BORDERS OF UKRAINE, AND OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
AND JUST DAYS AFTER OLYMPICS, IT
WOULD INVITE THE CONDEMNATION OF
NATIONS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL LOOK FOR
ANSWERS TO TODAY'S FASMOVIT-NG
UKRAINE DEVELOPMENTS, AND
RUSSIA'S ROLE, AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
IN MOSCOW TODAY, A RUSSIAN COURT
PUT OPPOSITION LEADER ALEXEI
NAVALNY UNDER HOUSE ARREST FOR
AT LEAST TWO MONTHS.
PROSECUTORS SAID HE VIOLATED
RULES BARRING HIM FROM LEAVING
THE CITY OF MOSCOW.
THE COURT BANNED NAVALNY FROM
USING THE INTERNET OR HAVING ANY
VISITORS.
BUT HE SAID THE DECREE IS MEANT
TO SILENCE HIS OUTSPOKEN
CRITICISM OF PRESIDENT PUTIN.
>> ( translated ): USING MY LAST
OPPORTUNITY, I JUST WANT TO SAY
THAT THIS IS OBVIOUSLY AN
ILLEGAL PROSECUTION.
I THINK IT IS NEEDLESS TO
EXPLAIN THAT WHAT HAPPENED IS
ONLY AIMED AT LIMITING MY
ABILITY TO CONTINUE ANTI-
CORRUPTION INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: NAVALNY IS ALREADY
SERVING A FIVE-YEAR SUSPENDED
SENTENCE ON A THEFT CONVICTION.
HE'S ALSO CHARGED WITH THEFT AND
MONEY-LAUNDERING IN A SEPARATE
CASE THAT HAS YET TO COME TO
TRIAL.
THE MEDICAL RELIEF GROUP DOCTORS
WITHOUT BORDERS SAYS IT HAS BEEN
EXPELLED FROM MYANMAR, THE
FORMER BURMA.
THE MOVE IS LINKED TO THE
GROUP'S WORK WITH THE ROHINGYA
MUSLIM MINORITY.
THEY'VE COME UNDER ATTACK BY
BUDDHIST-LED MOBS.
MYANMAR IS PREDOMINATELY
BUDDHIST, AND THE GOVERNMENT HAS
ACCUSED DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS
OF CREATING TENSIONS.
A POWERFUL STORM DUMPED HEAVY
RAIN ACROSS MUCH OF CALIFORNIA
TODAY, RAISING THE RISK OF
MUDSLIDES.
THE DELUGE BROUGHT MUCH-NEEDED
RELIEF TO AREAS COPING WITH
LONG-TERM DROUGHT.
BUT COMMUNITIES EAST OF LOS
ANGELES WERE VULNERABLE BECAUSE
MOUNTAIN SLOPES ABOVE THEM WERE
BURNED CLEAN OF VEGETATION BY
WILDFIRES LAST MONTH.
MANDATORY EVACUATIONS WERE
ORDERED FOR 1,200 HOMES.
IN ALASKA, THE U.S.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ANNOUNCED INITIAL STEPS TO
RESTRICT, OR OUTRIGHT BAR, A
HUGE GOLD AND COPPER MINING
PROJECT.
THE PROPOSED PEBBLE MINE
OPERATION WOULD BE NEAR A
BRISTOL BAY FISHERY THAT
PRODUCES NEARLY HALF THE WORLD'S
SOCKEYE SALMON.
SEPARATELY, THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL
SURVEY REPORTED THE NUMBER OF
SEA OTTERS IN ALASKA'S PRINCE
WILLIAM SOUND HAS RETURNED TO
WHAT IT WAS BEFORE THE EXXON
VALDEZ OIL SPILL, IN 1989.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
ISSUED ANOTHER FIX TO THE HEALTH
CARE LAW -- THIS ONE, TO HELP
STATES THAT STRUGGLED TO GET
ENROLLMENT WEB SITES UP AND
RUNNING.
THE CHANGE PERMITS RESIDENTS OF
THOSE STATES TO RECEIVE FEDERAL
TAX CREDITS, EVEN IF THEY ENDED
UP BUYING INSURANCE OUTSIDE THE
ONLINE EXCHANGES.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY
CARNEY.
>> SUBSIDIES OF ACA REMAIN
AVAILABLE NO MATTER HOW YOU GET
INSURANCE.
WE'RE MAKING SURE CMS IS WORKING
CLOSELY WITH STATES TO
SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT THEIR
MARKETPLACES.
AND THAT INCLUDES MAKING SURE
THAT THOSE WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
SUBSIDIES ARE ABLE TO RECEIVE
THEM.
>> Woodruff: THE PROBLEMS WITH
THE FEDERAL HEALTH CARE
INSURANCE EXCHANGE HAVE LARGELY
BEEN REPAIRED.
BUT THE STATES OF OREGON,
MARYLAND, MASSACHUSETTS AND
HAWAII ARE STILL LABORING TO GET
THEIR WEBSITES INTO OPTIMUM
SHAPE.
A RETIREMENT SURGE MEANS
REGIONAL AIRLINES  IN THE U.S.
WILL NEED HUNDREDS OF NEW PILOTS
EACH YEAR OVER THE NEXT DECADE,
BUT THEY MAY NOT GET THEM.
THE GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY
OFFICE REPORTS 11 OUT OF 12
REGIONAL CARRIERS FAILED TO MEET
HIRING TARGETS LAST YEAR.
A MAJOR FACTOR COULD BE THE
AVERAGE ANNUAL STARTING SALARY,
JUST $22,400.
REGIONAL AIRLINES HANDLE HALF OF
ALL DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: A MAJOR EXCHANGE
FOR BITCOINS FILED FOR
BANKRUPTCY PROTECTION TODAY.
MOUNT GOX, BASED IN TOKYO,
ACKNOWLEDGED A MASSIVE LOSS OF
THE VIRTUAL CURRENCY, TOPPING
$400 MILLION.
IT'S STILL UNCLEAR EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED TO THE MISSING
BITCOINS.
WE'LL FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THE
EXCHANGE'S TROUBLES LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
THE U.S. ECONOMY GREW MORE
SLOWLY IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF
LAST YEAR THAN FIRST ESTIMATED,
AN ANNUAL RATE OF
2.4%.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID TODAY SEVERE
WINTER WEATHER WAS PARTLY TO
BLAME.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED 49
POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,321.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 10
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4308.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ROSE FIVE
POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,859,
ANOTHER ALL-TIME HIGH.
FOR THE MONTH, THE DOW AND THE
S-AND-P GAINED 4%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE
5%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE OF
UKRAINE; OUR RARE LOOK INSIDE
JAPAN'S FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR PLANT;
A TROUBLED EXCHANGE FOR VIRTUAL
CURRENCY FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY;
PLUS, MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S NEWS.
LITE TODAY THE U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
NATIONS PROPOSED SENDING AN
URGENT INDEPENDENT AND
CREDIBLE MEDIATION MISSION
TO HELP RESOLVE UKRAINE'S
CRISIS.
HOWEVER RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR
CHECKIN DISMISSED THE IDEA
SAYING HE WAS AGAINST
IMPOSED MEDIATION.
OUR JEFFREY BROWN TAKES A
CLOSER LOOK AT THE TENSIONS
ESCALATING BETWEEN RUSSIA
AND UKRAINE.
>> Brown: TO DO THAT I'M
JOINED BY DIMITY RYE SIMES
PRESIDENT FOR THE CENTER OF
NATIONAL INTEREST, A FOREIGN
POLICY THINK TANK AND ANGELA
STENT, DIRECTOR FOR THE
CENTER OF EURASIAN, RUSSIAN
AND EAST EUROPEAN STUDIES AT
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY, HER
LATEST BOOK IS THE LIMITS OF
PARTNERSHIP, U.S.-RUSSIAN
RELATIONS IN THE 21st
CENTURY.
ANGELA STENT, I WILL START
WITH YOU.
PRESIDENT OBAMA
CITED-- CITED REPORTS OF
TROOP MOVEMENT IN UKRAINE
BUT IT IS A VERY CONFUSING
SITUATION, ISN'T IT?
>> IT IS VERY CONFUSING.
WE DO KNOW THAT IN CRIMEA
PRO RUSSIAN FORCES, PEOPLE
AND SOME FORCES HAVE TAKEN
OVER LOCAL BUILDINGS.
SOME CRIMEANS WOULD LIKE A
REFERENDUM TO-- AND ON THE
OTHER HAND THERE ARE OTHER
GROUPS IN CRIMEA THAT ARE
NOT PRO RUSSIAN AND SUPPORT
THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT IN
KEY AVENUE.
-- KEY EVE.
WE REALLY DON'T KNOW THAT
MUCH ABOUT WHAT IS WHATTING
BUT WE DO KNOW RUSSIA IS
FLEXING ITS MILLS T HAS
IMPORTANT EQUITIES IN CRIMEA
T IS THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE
BLACK SEA FLEET AND THEY
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
DON'T LOSE THOSE EQUITIES.
>> WHAT DOES FLEXING ITS
MUSCLES MEAN.
THE OBVIOUS QUESTION IS AN
INVASION OR SOME SORT OF
INVASION UNDER WAY?
>> WELL, THE BLACK SEA FLEET
IS IN CRIMEA.
-- FOR THE TROOPS WHICH ARE
THERE QUITE LEGALLY WITH THE
BLACK SEA FLEET AND CLEARLY
SOME OTHER RUSSIAN UNITS ARE
ARRIVING THERE.
ONE ELEMENT OF CONFUSION,
ANGELA, QUITE CORRECTLY
TALKED ABOUT CONFUSION.
BUT IT'S NOT ONLY ON WHO IS
DOING WHAT TO WHOM, BUT WHAT
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT.
BECAUSE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER LAVROV HAS A CURED
SECRETARY KERRY AS WE HEAR
THAT THERE WOULD BE NO
RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE.
WELL, RUSSIA IS NOT
INTERNING BECAUSE THEY DO IN
THE RECOGNIZE THE GOVERNMENT
INTERIM.
THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT THEM
AS A SO-CALLED GOVERNMENT.
THEY DID NOT SAY-- .
>> Brown: EVEN THE
DEFINITION OF INTERFERENCE.
>> EXACTLY.
AND YANUKOVYCH FROM THE
RUSSIAN STANDPOINT IS STILL
THE LEGITIMATE PRESIDENT.
HE'S IN RUSSIA.
AND HE STATED TODAY PUBLICLY
THAT HE FULLY SUPPORTS
ACTIONS OF SELF-DEFENSE
UNITS IN CRIMEA.
AND A DEFINITION OF
SELF-DEFENSE UNITS IS QUITE
BROAD, INCLUDING UNITS
PROVIDED BY THE RUSSIAN
BLACK SEA FLEET.
>> Brown: ANGELA STENT, WHEN
THE PRESIDENT SAYS AS WE
ALSO HEARD THAT THERE WOULD
BE COSTS TO ANY MILITARY
INTERVENTION, WHAT MIGHT
THAT MEAN?
WHAT SORT OF LEVERAGE WOULD
THERE BE?
>> THAT'S A VERY INTERESTING
QUESTION.
WE DO NOT HAVE THAT MUCH
LEVERAGE WITH RUSSIA ANY
MORE.
OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH RU
HAS DETERIORATED.
THERE IS NOT MUCH RUSSIA
WANTS FROM US.
AND SO I THINK, AND ON THE
OTHER HAND WE NEED TO WORK
WITH RUSSIA ON THE IRANIAN
QUESTION AND THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WANTS TO
ACHIEVE AN AGREEMENT ON IRAN,
ON SYRIA, ON ALL OF THESE
OTHER ISSUES.
SO THERE MAY BE COSTS, THERE
COULD BE SOME KIND OF
SANCTIONS ALTHOUGH EVEN
THERE THERE IS A LIMITED
POSSIBILITY.
SO I'M NOT REALLY SURE WHAT
THOSE COSTS WOULD BE.
>> Brown: DMITRI SIMES THERE
IS A LOT OF HISTORY,
OBVIOUSLY WITH CRIMEA,
RUSSIA AND UKRAINE, FOR OUR
AUDIENCE WHAT SHOULD WE FOE
ABOUT TO HELP US UNDERSTAND
THIS.
>> UKRAINE, OF COURSE, WAS A
PART OF RUSSIA FOR MORE THAN
300 YEARS.
AND IT DECIDED TO SECEDE AND
EVERYBODY HAS ACCEPTED IT AS
LEGITIMATE.
CRIMEA WAS A PART OF UKRAINE.
-- IT WAS GIVEN TO UKRAINE
BY-- BUT TO CELEBRATE 300
YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF
UKRAINIAN DECISIONS TO JOIN
RUSSIA.
AND OF COURSE AT THAT TIME,
UKRAINIA WAS A SOLITARY
REPUBLIC AND THE FEDERAL
PART OF THE SOVIET UNION WH
WHO-- IN HIS WILDEST DREAM.
THAT GIFT.
>> HE WAS GIVING THEM
SOMETHING THAT HE WASN'T
WANTING TO GIVE AWAY
ANYTHING.
>> LET ME SAY SOMETHING THAT
IS NOT BEING DISCUSSED
SUFFICIENT.
RUSSIA HAS A MAJOR INTEREST
IN CRIMEA.
AND UNLIKE IN KEY EVE WHERE
RUSSIA HAD VERY FEW
INSTRUMENTS OF POWER, AND
THE WEST HAD MANY MORE
INSTRUMENTS IN CRIMEA.
RUSSIA CONTROLS SITUATION ON
THE GROUND.
AND WE HAVE DONE TO
UNDERSTAND THAT WE EITHER
WOULD HAVE TO DEVELOP A
SOLUTION TOGETHER WITH
RUSSIA, OR THERE WOULD BE A
MILITARY CONFLICT.
AND IN A MILITARY CONFLICT
THE STAKES WOULD BE MUCH
HIGHER FOR RUSSIA THAN FOR
THE UNITED STATES.
SO WHO IS GOING TO
BRING-- IS AN INTERESTING
QUESTION.
I WOULD BE PRESIDENT OBAMA,
I WOULD NOT BE TALKING
ABOUT-- IN CRIMEA FOR THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN, FILL IN
THAT, RUSSIA CONTROLS THE
SITUATION ON THE GROUND IN
THE CRIMEA.
>> IT DOES HAVE A LOT OF
LEVERAGE THERE BECAUSE THE
MAJORITY OF THE POPULATION
NOT ALL OF THEM, BUT
MAJORITY ARE RUSSIAN AND
THEY WANT MORE AUTONOMY FOR
THEIR REGION.
EVEN KNOW THEY DID VOTE IN
1991 TO BE PART OF AN
INDEPENDENT UKRAINE, THEY DO
WANT A SPECIAL STATUS.
I THINK THE OTHER THING WE
HAVE TO REALIZE IS WE DON'T
KNOW WHETHER THIS INTERIM
GOVERNMENT IN KEY EVE IS
GOING TO BE ABLE TO IMPOSE
ITS WILL MUCH BEYOND KEY EVE
AND THE WESTERN PARTS OF
UKRAINE.
AND THIS IS PART OF I THINK
PART OF THE RUSSIAN GAIN TOO
IS TO WAIT AND SEE WHETHER
THE CURRENT UNIFORM
GOVERNMENT LASTS AND IF NOT,
WHAT COMES NEXT AND THEN THE
SITUATION MIGHT CHANGE
AGAIN.
>> Brown: CRIMEA DOES
OPERATE SOMEWHAT AUTONOMOUSLY
RIGHT NOW, CORRECT.
>> IT CERTAINLY DOES.
BUT INTERESTING, THE CITY OF
SEBASTOPOL WHERE THE BLACK
SEA FLEET IS LOCATED IS
SUPPOSED TO BE UNDER THE
DIRECT JURBS DICTION OF KIEV,
SO IT IS MORE CONFUSING.
>> SO WHAT IS ALL THIS SAY
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF THE
QUESTION HOW FAR RUSSIA
MIGHT GO TO PROTECT ITS
INTEREST TO AN INVASION LIKE
WHAT WE SAW WITH GEORGIA?
>> AT THIS POINT, I THINK
PUTIN DOES UNDERSTAND THAT
HE HAS AN EMERGING STAKE IN
THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
UNITED STATES, WITH THE
EUROPEAN UNION AND HE WOULD
LIKE TO CONTROL THE
SITUATION AND TO LIMIT THE
DAMAGE.
I THINK AT THIS POINT, IT IS
STILL POSSIBLE TO REACH A
DEAL WHERE YOU AUTHORITIES
IN KIEV WOULD STOP TALKING
TO THE RUSSIANS IN A MORE
CONCILIATORY WAY, THAT IS
WHAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ALSO
RECOMMENDS AND IN RETURN,
THE REFERENDUM IN C
I'M SURE IT WILL TAKE PLACE
ON MAY 25th AS SCHEDULED.
BUT THEY WOULD NOT TALK
ABOUT INDEPENDENCE.
THEY WOULD JUST EXPECT
SOMEWHAT AUTONOMY.
I DON'T THINK THAT THIS
WOULD BE A TERRIBLE DEAL FOR
THE UNITED STATES.
HAVING SAID THAT, IF THE
SITUATION CONTINUES TO
ESCALATE, ALL KINDS OF
UNPREDICTABLE THINGS,
UNTHINKABLE THINGS MAY
BECOME THINKABLE IN A MATTER
OF DAYS.
>> Brown: WHAT IS YOUR
ANALYSIS OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF ESCALATION.
>> THE U.S. IS TO THE GOING
TO GET INTO A MILITARY
CONFLICT WITH RUSSIA OVER
UKRAINE.
I MEAN THAT IS CLEARLY OUT
OF THE QUESTION.
BUT THINGS COULD ESCALATE,
DMITRI IS RIGHT.
IF MOSCOW IS WORRIED THAT
THIS NEW GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
WOULD REVISIT THE LEASE
AGREEMENT WITH RUSSIA
WHEREBY IT IS THERE UNTIL
2042 FOR THE FLEET, THAT
WOULD BE A SERIOUS PROVE
VACATION-- PROVOCATION.
THEY PROBABLY WON'T DO THAT.
BUT EVERYTHING IS, AT THE
MOMENT, QUITE UNPREDICTABLE.
>> Brown: AND WHAT DO YOU
MAKE OF THIS INTERNATIONAL
MEDIATION MISSION
THAT-- RAISED.
>> IT WOULD BE VERY, CLEARLY
THE ONLY LONG-TERM SOLUTION
IS FOR EVERYONE TO WORK
TOGETHER.
THE UNITED STATES, RUSSIA,
THE EUROPEAN UNION AND
UKRAINIANS.
ON THE ECONOMIC LEVEL AND
TODAY MR. PUTIN IS SAYING
THAT RUSSIA IS WILLING TO
WORK WITH THE IMF THERE.
BUT ON THE POLITICAL LEVEL
TOO.
I WONDER WHETHER IT'S TOO
EARLY TO DO THAT NOW.
BUT I GUESS THE IMMEDIATE
TASK IS TO DE-ESCALATE THE
POSSIBILITY OF MILITARY
CONFLICT.
>> Brown: OF COURSE AS WE
HEARD, THE RUSSIANS
IMMEDIATELY SAID THE
MEDIATION ISN'T NECESSARY.
>> BECAUSE AN INTERNATIONAL
MEDIATION WAS EUROPEAN UNION,
IN KEY EVE-- KIEV.
AND YANUKOVYCH MADE
CONCESSION UNDER PRESSURE.
AND ONCE HE MADE CONCESSIONS,
THE OTHER SIDE'S OPPOSITION
HAVE DISREGARDED THE DEAL
AND ENTIRELY TOOK OVER.
THIS IS A NONSTARTER.
WHAT I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA
NEEDS TO DO IS NOT TO ASK
BIDEN TO CALL MEDVEDEV, NO
INFLUENCE ON THE RUSSIAN
AUTHORITY, NO REAL INFLUENCE
N MY VIEW PRESIDENT OBAMA
HAS TO TALK TO PUTIN,
PERHAPS TO ARRANGE AN
EMERGENCY SUMMIT WITH PUTIN,
AND TO TALK ABOUT A
COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTION FOR
CRIMEA AND YOU CRANE.
THE TIME TO DO IT IS NOW.
>> BrownDIMI: TRI SIMES, AND
ANGELA STENT, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WE TAKE YOU TO
A PLACE THAT GARNERED HEADLINES
AROUND THE WORLD THREE YEARS
AGO, BUT HAS HARDLY BEEN SEEN
SINCE, BECAUSE IT'S SO
DANGEROUS.
NEWSHOUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN IS OUR GUIDE.
>> Reporter: THREE YEARS
AFTER THE MELTDOWNS, THE
ROAD TO FUKUSHIMA IS STILL A
GAUNTLET OF ROADBLOCKS AND
STRICT SECURITY
AND INSIDE THE EXCLUSION
ZONE, IT REMAINS A POST
APOCALYPTIC LANDSCAPE OF
ABANDONED TOWNS, FROZEN IN
TIME.
WE WERE ON OUR WAY TO ONE OF
THE MOST HAZARDOUS PLACES ON
EARTH, THE FUKUSHIMA
DAI-ICHI NUCLEAR POWER PLANT.
THE TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER
COMPANY, TEPCO GRANTED THE
NEWSHOUR PERMISSION FOR A
RARE TOUR INSIDE THE PLANT
WHERE THREE NUCLEAR REACTORS
MELTED DOWN AFTER THE GREAT
EARTHQUAKE AND SUBSEQUENT
TSUNAMI ON MARCH 11th, 2011.
IN THE SEISMICALLY ISOLATED
AN RADIOACTIVELY PROTECTED
EMERGENCY RESPONSE CENTER,
WE MET THE MAN IN THE
HOTTEST SEAT OF ALL HERE,
SUPERINTENDENT AKIRA ONO.
HE RUNS AN UNPRECEDENTED
DEMISSIONING
PRO-- DECOMMISSIONING
PROJECT THAT WILL NOT BE
DONE FOR DECADES.
HE PREFERS NOT TO CALL IT A
CLEANUP.
>> AFTER ALL, IF YOU ARE
JUST CLEANING UP AFTER AN
ACCIDENT, HE TOLD ME, THERE
IS A LACK OF QUALITY,
MEANING SPEED AS THE ONLY
CONCERN.
I FEEL THAT ISN'T ENOUGH.
WE NEED TO LOOK AHEAD, 30 TO
40 YEARS.
>> TO SEE IT FIRSTHAND, WE
HAD TO SUIT UP.
>> WE MUST ALSO WEAR A FULL
FACEMASK AND RESPIRATIO
RESPIRATION-- RESPIRATOR FOR
GOOD MEASURE, RESEMBLING
ASTRONAUTS ON THE WAY TO A
FULLY FUELED RCKETO, WE
DONNED SPECIAL SHOES AND
HARD HATS, AND BOARDED A BUS
THAT WILL GET US AS CLOSE TO
THE MELTOWNS AS THE LAWS OF
PHYSICS AND COMMON SENSE
WOULD ALLOW US.
FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI OR NUMBER
ONE WAS A COMPLEX OF SIX
BOILING WATER REACTERS
DESIGNED BY GENERAL
ELECTRIC.
THEY WERE BUILT ON SLOPING
TERRAIN, SANDWICHED BETWEEN
A MOUNTAIN RIDGE AND THE PAS
CIVIC OCEAN.
THE NUCLEAR CORES ARE
BETWEEN 600 AND 800 FEET
FROM THE HARBOR.
THREE OF THOSE CORES ARE NOW
MELTED DOWN, STILL STEAMING
HOT.
THEIR STEEL CONTAINMENT
STRUCTURES BREACHED.
ENGINEERS BELIEVE SOME OF
THE NUCLEAR FUEL HAS MELTED
RIGHT THROUGH THE STEEL
CONTAINMENT VESSELS ON TO A
CONCRETE BASEMENT FLOOR
WHERE IT IS EXPOSED TO
GROUND WATER.
>> AS THE GROUND WATER
PASSES THROUGH THE PLANT, IT
GETS MIXED IN WITH THE
CONTAMINATED WATER THAT IS
USED TO COOL THE MELTEDDOWN
CORES.
THE RESULT IS AN AWFUL LOT
OF WATER THAT NEEDS TO BE
CAPTURED, OR ELSE IT ENDS UP
IN THE OCEAN.
EACH AND EVERY DAY ABOUT
100,000 GALLONS OF FRESH
GROUND WATER SINKS INTO THE
BASEMENTS OF THE PLANT WHERE
IT BECOMES CONTAMINATED WITH
A WITCH'S BREW OF RADIONUCLEI.
TEPCO IS FURIOUSLY TRYING TO
KEEP PACE WITH THE WATER.
THEY FINISH A NEW QUARTER
MILLION GALLON HOLDING TANK
HERE ABOUT EVERY OTHER DAY.
BUT THE HASTILY BUILT TANKS
HAVE BEEN LEAKING.
PROMPTING A SWITCH TO A
WELDED DESIGN, BUTTRESSED BY
GUTTERS, DIKES, TRENCHES AND
WATER SEALANTS.
REGARDLESS, NO ONE DISPUTES
THE PLANT IS STEADILY
LEAKING RADIATION-TAINTED
WATER INTO THE SEA.
>> WHEN YOU GO OUT TO THE
OPEN OCEAN, THERE IS VERY
LITTLE CONTAMINATION FOUND
SAYS SUPERINTENDENT ONO.
BASICALLY THE CONTAMINATION
IS LIMITED TO THE PORT.
AT THE PORT THEY ARE
BOLSTERING THE LAST LINE OF
DEFENSE, THIS WATER
SHIELDING WALL SHOULD BE
COMPLETE IN SEPTEMBER.
BEHIND IT IS A SYSTEM THAT
INJECTS A CHEMICAL INTO THE
GROUND THAT TURNS WATER INTO
A VISCUS GEL, STEMMING THE
FLOW TO THE SEA.
THE COMPANY IS ALSO TESTING
AN IDEA TO BURY COOLING
PIPES NEAR THE MELTED
REACTORS TO FREEZE THE
GROUND, MAKING IMPERMEABLE
ICE PLUGS IN WALLS THAT
WOULD KEEP THE CLEAN AND
CONTAMINATED WATER APART.
BUT ALL OF THIS IS CLEARLY
NOT SUSTAINABLE.
IN ABOUT THREE YEARS, THEY
WILL RUN OUT OF SPACE FOR
NEW WATER HOLDING TANKS.
THEN WHAT?
ONO, NO RELATION TO THE
SUPERINTENDENT IS GENERAL
MANAGER OF TEPCO NUCLEAR
POWER DIVISION.
>> WE CAN'T SOLVE THIS
PROBLEM BY SIMPLY INCREASING
THE NUMBER OF TANKS, HE TOLD
ME.
WE NEED TO SOLVE THE
FUNDAMENTAL ISSUE OF
UNDERGROUND WATER COMING IN.
>> AND TEPCO IS ALSO
INVESTING A LOT IN THIS
SOPHISTICATED RADIATION
WATER FILTERING TECHNOLOGY.
THE TRIAL RUN, THE ADVANCED
LIQUID PROCESSING SYSTEM HAS
CLEANED UP 12.5 MILLION
GALLONS OF WATER.
IT REMOVES CEASIUM,
STRONTIUM AND 60 OTHER
RADIOACTIVE NUCLEI BUT NOT
TRADIUM THERE IS NO PRAK
WALL-- PRACTICAL WAY TO
FACTOR OUT THIS ISOTOPE OF
HYDROGEN.
>> IT IS HARD TO REMOPE
TRIDIUM WITH SCIENTIFIC
METHODS, HE SAYS.
BUT GIVEN ITS BIOLOGICAL
PROPERTIES T IS A
RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE WITH A
VERY LIMITED RISK.
>> NUCLEAR ENGINEER LAKE
BARRETT WORKED FOR THE U.S.
NUCLEAR REGULATORY
COMMISSION AT THREE MILE
ISLAND IN THE WAKE OF THE
MELTDOWN THERE IN 1979.
HE ASK NOW A SPECIAL ADVISOR
TO TEPCO'S PRESIDENT.
>> WHEN YOU KBOIN ALL THE
WATER ON THE SITE WITH THE
TRIDIUM, THE LEVEL WAS BE SO
LOW AT FUKUSHIMA THEY WOULD
NEED TO MEET INTERNATIONAL
DRINKING WATER STANDARDS.
>> TEPCO HAS NO
AUTHORIZATION FROM THE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT, LOCAL
RESIDENTS OR FISHERMEN TO
DISCHARGE ANY WATER AT ALL
INCLUDING WHAT IS LEAKING
FROM THE FUKUSHIMA DAI-ICHI
SITE.
BUT A RELEASE OF MILLIONS OF
GALLONS OF WATER TAINTED
WITH TRIDIUM INTO THE OCEAN
SEEMS INEVITABLE.
>> YOU CAN RELEASE IT INTO
THE OCEAN, IN A NORMAL
CONTROLLED RELEASE, WHICH IS
WHAT I PERSONALLY BELIEVE
THEY OUGHT TO DO.
BUT THEY HAVE TO WORK
THROUGH THE FISHERMEN AND
ALL THE GOVERNORS AND ALL
THE SOCIAL ISSUES THAT HAVE
TO BE ADDRESSED WITH THAT.
>> Reporter: THE LONG-TERM
SOLUTION HERE IS TO REMOVE
AND SECURE THE NUCLEAR FUEL.
AT UNIT 4 THEY HAVE BEGUN
THAT PROCESS.
THIS REACTOR WAS SHUT DOWN
FOR MAINTENANCE WHEN THE
TSUNAMI HIT.
AND SO THE FUEL HAD BEEN
MOVED INTO THIS STORAGE
POOL.
EVEN THOUGH THE REACTOR WAS
NOT RUNNING, DURING THE
WORST OF THE CRISIS,
HYDROGEN GAS ACCUMULATED IN
THE REACTOR BUILDINGS
CAUSING A SERIES OF
EXPLOSIONS.
DEBRIS RAINED DOWN INTO THE
POOL, LANDING ON TOP OF THE
STORED FUEL ASSEMBLIES.
WORKERS HAVE NOW CAREFULLY
PLUCKED AWAY THE PIECES AND
HAVE BEGUN REMOVING THE
150033 FUEL ASSEMBLIES
STORED HERE.
>> -- IT IS ASSUMED THAT
SOME DEBRIS FELL THROUGH THE
GAPS, ENGINEER TAKASHII HARA
TOLD ME.
SO FAR WE DON'T THINK IT IS
ANYTHING THAT WILL CAUSE THE
FUEL TO GET STUCK, HOWEVER
IT COULD BE THE CASE IN THE
FUTURE SO WE'RE PROCEEDING
FAUX VERY SLOWLY.
THE FUEL ASSEMBLIES ARE
TRANSPORTED IN CASTS, THAT
WILL BE STORED IN A MORE
SEISMICALLY SECURE COMMON
STORAGE POOL.
IF ALL GOES AS PLANNED, THIS
PROCESS WILL BE COMPLETE BY
THE END OF THIS YEAR.
BUT REMOVING THE MELTED FUEL
FROM UNITS 1, 2 AND 3 IS
ANOTHER MATTER ENTIRELY.
RADIATION LEVELS ARE SIMPLY
TOO HIGH FOR HUMANS TO EVER
GET CLOSE ENOUGH TO CLEAN UP,
EVEN SO, TEPCO IS VOWS TO
HAVE THE FUEL DEBRIS REMOVED
FROM ONE OF THE REACTERS BY
MID 2020.
BUT HOW?
THE ONLY WAY TO DO THAT IS
TO INVENT ROBOTS THAT CAN DO
THE JOB.
AND THAT IS PRECISELY WHAT
THEY'RE TRYING TO DO.
>> THEY'RE PROBABLY THE MOST
ROBOTIC SOCIETY, YOU KNOW,
THERE IS ON EARTH.
NOW YOU HAVE TO TAKE IT TO
ANOTHER LEVEL.
YOU KNOW, TO WORK IN THE
HIGH RADIATION FIELD AND TO
DO THINGS THAT TY'VEHE NEVER
DONE BEFORE.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE MANY
THINGS THAT WILL HAVE TO BE
DONE HERE THAT HAVE NEVER
BEEN DONE BEFORE.
IN ORDER TO DECOMMISSION
THIS PLANT.
>> THE NEED TO INCORPORATE
MORE AND MORE NEW THINGS
SUPERINTENDENT ONO TOLD ME.
YOU CAN'T BROOD ON THE PAST
FOR ANSWERS.
I WANT TO TAKE ON THE
VARIOUS CHALLENGES WITH A
CONSTRUCTIVE ATTITUDE.
>> BEFORE WE LEFT, THEY
CAREFULLY SCANNED ALL OF US
AND CHECKED THE-- METERS
THAT WE CARRIED ALONG THE
WAY.
DURING OUR FOUR AND A HALF
HOUR TOUR WE ABSORBED AS
MUCH RADIATION AS WE WOULD
HAVE IN A SINGLE CHEST
X-RAY.
IT WAS DARK WHEN WE ROAD THE
BUS OUT OF THE EXCLUSION
ZONE.
IT WAS A QUIET RIDE AS WE
ALL PROCESSED THE MAGNITUDE
OF THE MESS.
THREE YEARS AFTER THE
MELTDOWNS, THE CRISIS HAS
NOT ENDED HERE.
IN SOME WAYS, IT IS STILL
UNFOLDING.
>> Woodruff: NEXT WEDNESDAY,
MILES WILL HAVE A REPORT
ON THE FUKUSHIMA MELTDOWN'S
EFFECT ON FISH IN THE
SURROUNDING WATERS.
AND WE WANT TO NOTE, THESE
STORIES WERE PRODUCED BEFORE
MILES' TRIP TOHE P THILIPPINES,
WHERE AN ACCIDENT LED TO THE
LOSS OF HIS LEFT ARM.
AS WE SAID  EARLIER THIS WEEK,
WE HIS NEWSHOUR COLLEAGUES ARE
IN AWE OF HIS COURAGE.
THERE IS MORE INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED, AND A LINK TO
MILES' BLOG, ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Woodruff: A WEEK AGO, MOST
PEOPLE NEVER HEARD OF AN ONLINE
CURRENCY EXCHANGE KNOWN AS MOUNT
GOX.
BUT IT'S SUDDENLY BECOME THE
SUBJECT OF INTERNATIONAL
INTEREST AND ITS RECENT TURN OF
FORTUNE IS PROMPTING MANY
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE FUTURE OF
THE VIRTUAL CURRENCY, BITCOIN.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: MOUNT GOX C.E.O.
MARK KARPELES ISSUED HIS  "MEA
CULPA" BEFORE NEWS CAMERAS IN
TOKYO TODAY.
>> THERE WAS A WEAK AREA IN THE
SYSTEM AND AS A RESULT WE LOST
BITCOINS.
I AM DEEPLY SORRY THAT I HAVE
CAUSED TROUBLE TO EVERYONE.
>> Sreenivasan: HIS WEBSITE HAD
BEEN ONE OF THE LARGEST ON-LINE
EXCHANGES FOR THE DIGITAL
CRYPTO-CURRENCY KNOWN AS
BITCOINS.
BITCOINS ARE GENERATED, OR
MINED, BY COMPUTERS, SOLVING
MATH PROBLEMS THAT BECOME EVER
MORE COMPLEX AND TIME-CONSUMING.
THE SITE, THAT ACTED AS AN
EXCHANGE, WENT OFF-LINE TUESDAY,
AMID ALLEGATIONS OF MAJOR THEFT,
AND KARPELES ACKNOWLEDGED TODAY
HE CAN'T ACCOUNT FOR 850,000
BITCOINS, THAT ALMOST 4% OF ALL
THE BITCOINS AVAILABLE TAY,OD
VALUED AT ABOUT $425 MILLION.
THE CATASTROPHIC LOSSES PROMPTED
PICKETING THIS WEEK OUTSIDE THE
COMPANY'S TOKYO OFFICES...
>> I HAD 311 BITCOINS IN THERE,
WHICH AT THE TIME BEFORE THIS
STARTED WAS WORTH AROUND
$300,000.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE THAT HAS
DISAPPEARED.
>> Sreenivasan: BITCOINS WERE
CREATED IN 2009 TO ENABLE CROSS-
BORDER TRANSACTIONS WITHOUT
THIRD PARTY OVERSIGHT, AND THEIR
VALUE SOARED IN RECENT MONTHS.
SOME ENTREPRENEURS EVEN SET UP
A.T.M.-LIKE VENDING MACHINES TO
DISTRIBUTE A HARD VERSION OF THE
CURRENCY.
BUT SECURITY CONCERNS AND
BITCOIN'S USE IN MONEY
LAUNDERING CAUGHT THE EYE OF
WORLD REGULATORS.
IN OCTOBER, U.S. OFFICIA SHULST
DOWN THE SILK ROAD, A MAJOR
ONLINE MARKETPLACE FOR DRUGS AND
OTHER ILLEGAL PRODUCTS BASED
PURELY ON BITCOIN TRANSACTIONS.
TODAY, JAPAN'S FINANCE MINISTER
SAID THE MOUNT GOX COLLAPSE
WASN'T UNEXPECTED.
>> ( translated ): I REALLY
WONDERED WHETHER THIS WOULD
CONTINUE.
I THOUGHT IT WOULD INDEED GO
BANKRUPT AT ONE POINT.
BUT IT HAS INDEED HAPPENED
QUICKLY.
>> Reporter: SUPPORTERS OF
BITCOIN SAY MOUNT GOX IS AN
ISOLATED CASE, AND THAT VIRTUAL
CURRENCIES STILL HAVE GREAT
POTENTIAL.
FOR MORE ON ALL THIS WE TURN
TO KASHMIR HILL, SENIOR
ON-LINE EDITOR AND WRITER AT
FOR OS WHO HAS BEEN
FOLLOWING THESE EVENTS
CLOSELY.
SHE'S ALSO AUTHOR OF THE
eBOOK SECRET MONEY,
RECOUNTING A WEEK SHE SPENT
LIVING EXCLUSIVELY ON BIT
COYNES, SO FIRST OF ALL,
EXPLAIN TO US WHAT MT. GOX
WAS AND HOW IT GOT SO BIG.
>> SO MT. GOX IS ONE OF THE
EARLIEST BIT COYNE
EXCHANGES.
ITS MAIM ACTUALLY STANDS FOR
MAGIC, THE GATHERING ON-LINE
EXCHANGE IT STARTED OUT
BASICALLY DEALING IN MAGIC
CARDS.
SO IT WAS INTERESTED IN
VALUE CREATED BY VIRTUAL
WORLDS.
AND SO IT MADE SENSE IT
WOULD MOVE INTO VIRTUAL
MONEY CREATED FOR THE REAL
WORLD SO IT WAS VERY EARLY,
IT BECAME ONE OF THE
BECAUSE IT JUST
ARRIVED TO THE GAME VERY
EARLY ON.
>> SO THIS POTENTIAL THEFT
OR ROBBERY OR DISSOLUTION OF
MONEY THAT HAPPENED, WELL
CONTINUATION DIDN'T REALLY
HAPPEN TUESDAY, WE DON'T
EXACTLY KNOW WHAT HAPPENED,
DO WE?
>> WE DON'T REALLY KNOW.
THERE IS STILL A BLACK HOLE
OF INFORMATION AROUND
EXACTLY HOW MT. GOX MAY HAVE
LOST THESE 850,000 BITCOINS.
THERE WAS ONE DOCUMENT THAT
WAS LEAKED THAT SAID THAT
THERE WAS A LEAK IN THERE
COLD STORAGE WALLET.
AND THEY BLAMED HACKERS WHO
TOOK ADVANTAGE OF A FLAW IN
THEIR CODE TO TAKE BITCOIN
OUT OF THEIR SYSTEM.
BUT WE STILL DON'T EXACTLY
KNOW WHAT HAPPENED.
>> SO IF THESE COINS WERE TO
COME BACK INTO CIRCULATION,
ISN'T THERE THE EQUIVALENT
OF A SERIAL NUMBER ON A
DOLLAR BILL, WOULDN'T THEY
SHOW UP BECAUSE ALL OF THE
TRANSACTION ON ALL OF THE
BITCOINS ARE IN A KIND OF
OPEN LOG?
>> RIGHT, SO UNLESS THEIR
SERVE EVER-- SERVES FELL IN
THE OCEAN, BITCOINS WEREN'T
COMPLETELY DESTROYED.
THEY WERE TAKEN FROM MT. GOX.
AND THEORETICALLY BITCOIN IS
ONE HUGE PUBLIC DID --
PUBLIC LEDGER, SO IF WE
COULD FIGURE OUT WHICH
TRANSACTIONS WERE THE
FRAUDULENT ONES, FRAUDULENT
ONES, THE THEFT, WE COULD
TRACE THE BITCOIN AND
POTENTIALLY FOLLOW IT TO
WHOEVER HAS STOLEN IT.
BUT THERE ARE WAYS WITHIN
THE BITCOIN SYSTEM TO KIND
OF CONFUSE WHERE BITCOIN
MOVED.
BUT THEORETICALLY WE COULD
POTENTIALLY SEE WHEN THE WAS
TAKEN AND SEE THE FLOW OF
TRANSACTIONS AS TO WHERE IT
WENT.
>> SO WHAT ABOUT THE PEOPLE
WHO LOST MONEY?
IS THERE ANY WAY THAT THEY
CAN BE MADE WHOLE AGAIN?
THERE ISN'T AN FDIC OR EVEN
A BANK THEY CAN GO COMPLAINT
TO.
>> AND FOR A LOT OF CRITICS
OF BITCOIN THEY ARE POINTING
TO THIS AS SAYING SEE, WE
TOLD YOU SO.
YOU PUT ALL OF THIS MONEY
INTO A VIRTUAL CURRENCY AND
NOW IT'S GONE AWAY YOU KNOW,
MT. GOX FILED FOR
BANKRUPTCY.
THEY DID SAY THEY HAVE SOME
ASSETS BUT THEY ALSO HAVE A
LOT OF DEBT SO, RIGHT NOW
IT'S LOOKING LIKE CUSTOMERS
OF MT. GOX FEEL, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE USING MT. GOX AS THEIR
BITCOIN BANK HAVE LOST THEIR
SAVINGS WHICH IS REALLY SAD
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO HAD
A LOT OF MONEY THERE.
>> SO THE JAPANESE FINANCE
MINISTER WAS ONE OF THOSE
CRITICS.
HE WASN'T SHY ABOUT HIS
PESSIMISM OR SKEPTICISM FOR
IT HOW ARE OTHER COUNTRIES
AROUND THE WORLD AND
POSSIBLY THEIR CENTRAL BANKS
POSITIONING THEMSELVES TO
NOT JUST BITCOIN BUT OTHER
CRYPTOCURRENCIES.
>> THERE U.S. REGULATORS AND
LAWMAKERS ARE BEING PRETTY
PROGRESSIVE AROUND BITCOIN.
AND THEY ARE POINTING TO
THINGS LIKE MT. GOX SAYING
WE NEED REGULATION.
WE NEED SOME KIND OF
OVERSITE OF DIFFERENT
SYSTEMS INVOLVED IN BITCOIN
SO I THINK THIS WILL GIVE
THEM MORE FODDER FOR CALLING
FOR THAT KIND OF REGULATION.
NEW YORK'S FINANCIAL
REGULATOR SAID THAT THEY
WANT TO ISSUE BIT LICENSES
FOR BITCOIN BUSINESSES,
WHETHER THEY WILL BE AUDITED
AND CHECKED AND MAKE SURE
THAT THERE IS NOTHING LIKE
WHAT HAPPENED WITH MT. GOX
WHERE PEOPLE'S BITCOINS JUST
DISAPPEAR OVERNIGHT.
>> SO IT SEEMS LIKE THE
REGULATION COULD BE A
DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD SWORD
HERE.
ON THE ONE HAND IT COULD
SLOW THINGS DOWN, WHICH IS
EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE OF WHAT
BITCOIN PROPONENTS WANT.
ON THE OTHER HAND IT COULD
ADD SOME LEGITIMACY TO THESE
CURRENCIES?
>> EARLY BITCOIN ADOPTERS
WHO LIKED BITCOIN BECAUSE IT
WAS FREE OF THE STATE AND
FREE OF REGULATORS HAVE
LOOKED A SCANT AT THE CALLS
FOR REGULATION.
BUT PEOPLE WHO HAVE GOT THEN
LATER WHO ARE MORE
INTERESTED IN THE KIND OF
LEGITIMATE USES OF BITCOIN
TO, YOU KNOW, AVOID
TRANSACTION FEES WHEN
SENDING MONEY, ARE PRETTY
EXCITED ABOUT THE IDEA,
THESE BUSINESSES HAVING SOME
KIND OF OVERSIGHT.
>> AND HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT
THAT THIS PARTICULAR
EXCHANGE, THE COLLAPSE OF
THE LARGEST EXCHANGE OF
BITCOIN WHAT IS THE
CONSEQUENCE OF THAT ON THESE
CRYPTOCURRENCIES, IT SEEMS
THERE ARE ARGUMENTS ON BOTH
SIDES.
ONE SAYING IT WILL MAKE THE
SYSTEM STRONGER, THE OTHER
SAYING THIS IS THE BEGINNING
OF THE END.
>> WELL, MT. GOX WAS FOR THE
LARGE TIME THE LARGEST
EXCHANGE, KIND OF THE ONLY
PLACE WHERE YOU COULD GO TO
BUY BITCOIN, BUT AS THE
VALUE OF BYTECOIN HAS RISEN
T HAS ATTRACTED OTHER
EXCHANGES SO THERE ARE VERY
BIG EXCHANGES IN CHINA, FOR
EXAMPLE.
THERE'S ONE IN SLOVENIA, AND
HERE IN THE U.S., A COMPANY
CALLED SECOND MARKET IS
PLANNING TO LAUNCH ONE THIS
SUMMER.
SO THERE ARE OTHER PLAYERS
IN THE BITCOIN MARKET NOW SO
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
BITCOIN IS JUST GOING TO
ROUTE AROUND MT. GOX'S
FAILURE.
IT JUST CLEARS THE FIELD FOR
OTHER, MORE LEGITIMATE
COMPANIES TO OPERATE.
OTHER CRITICS SAY YOU KNOW H
THIS IS-- IN TERMS OF
MAINSTREAM ADOPTION AND NEW
PEOPLE ENTERING THE BITCOIN
MARKET THIS WILL BE VERY
SCARY FOR THEM.
THE IDEA THAT YOU MIGHT BUY
A BUNCH OF BITCOIN AND
OVERNIGHT SEE THEM DISAPPEAR.
>> AND WHILE WE HAVE
REPEATEDLY TALKED ABOUT
BITCOIN, IT'S JUST ONE OF
MULTIPLE CURRENCIES.
IT'S SORT OF THE GOLD THERE
IS A SILVER, THERE'S A
COPPER OUT THERE, RIGHT?
>> THERE ARE OTHER
CRYPTOCURRENCIES OUT THERE,
THERE IS LIGHTCOIN, THERE IS
DOOGCOIN, THESE ARE
BASICALLY CURRENCIES WHERE
THEY COPIED THE BITCOIN CODE
AND MODIFIED IN IN SOME WAY.
SO IT IS VERY SIMILAR TO
BITCOIN WITH SLIGHT
DIFFERENCES.
AND LIGHTCOIN IS MORE OF AN
INCREASE IN VALUE OVER THE
LAST YEAR THAN BITCOIN DID,
RELATIVELY.
IF YOU BOT $100 IN LIGHTCOIN
IN JANUARY OF LAST YEAR IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN WORTH
SOMETHING LIKE $30,000 IN
JANUARY OF THIS YEAR.
SO WE'RE DEFINITELY SEEING A
KIND OF WIDER INTEREST IN
CRYPTOCURRENCIES OR
OUGHTCOINS AS SOME PEOPLE
CALL THEM.
>> KASHMIR HILL FROM FORBES,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCE.OM
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO UKRAINE, RUSSIA, DAVID
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE NOW
SAYING THEY'RE CONVINCED THE
RUSSIAN MILITARY IS IN
CRIMEA.
YOU HEARD PRESIDENT OBAMA
WARNING TODAY, WHAT ARE WE
TO MAKE OF THIS?
>> I THOUGHT THE WARNING WAS
STRONG.
I THOUGHT THE REFERENCE TO
COSTS, I THINK THE REFERENCE
TO HOW DEEPLY CONCERNED THE
U.S. WOULD BE AND THE WEST
WOULD BE IF RUSSIA CONTINUES
THIS WAS A REASONABLY STRONG
STATEMENT TO GO OUT THERE.
BUT FULLY JUSTIFIED.
UKRAINE WAS CLEARLY AND
PUTIN WAS CLEARLY NOT GOING
TO DO ANYTHING.
HE WAS GOING TO THROW SOME
THUGGISH WEIGHT AROUND.
WILL PROBABLY GET AN
ELECTORAL LAW BUT THE
CRUCIAL THING HERE IS MONEY.
UKRAINE IS A COUNTRY WHICH
WAS REALLY TEETERING TOWARD
KBRUPT SEE.
AND THIS IS A COUNTRY FOR
SALE.
AND PUTIN HAS SHOWN IN THE
WEST WHEN WE OFFERED AN IMF
PACKAGE A FEW MONTHS AGO, WE
WEREN'T REALLY WILLING TO
BACK IT UP WITH MONEY AND
PUT INWAS, HE WAS WILLING TO
OUTBID US.
SO THIS WILL COME DOWN TO
WHO WILL OUTBID WHO I THINK
PUT INTHINKS HE CAN OUTBID
THE WEST AGAIN.
THE ADMINISTRATION SOURCES I
TALKED TO ARE PRETTY
RESOLUTE WE WILL OFFER SOME
MONEY THIS TIME TO KEEP THE
POSSIBILITY OF A
WESTERN-LEANING UKRAINE A
FISCAL REALITY.
AND SO I THINK THE
ADMINISTRATION IS PRETTY
RESOLVED NOT TO LET PUTIN
GET AWAY WITH THIS, GIVEN
THE LEVERAGE WE HAVE.
>> Woodruff: WHERE DO YOU
SEE THIS GOING?
>> WELL, CHIP BOLEN, THE
GREAT U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE
SOVIET UNION SAY THERE IS NO
EXPERT ON RUSSIA, THERE IS
JUST VARIOUS IGNORANCE.
I FOLLOW THAT CATEGORY.
I'M AMAZED THAT PUTIN JUST
HAVING REALLY BEEN REFLECTED
GLORY OF THE OLYMPICS --
>> A WEEK AGO.
AND HAVING EARNED THE
GOODWILL THAT APPARENTLY WAS
BEHIND HIS ROLE, THE
PROMINENCE, THE CELEBRITY,
THE A DULLTATION-- ADULATION,
PUTS IT ON ALL ON THE LINE,
I AGREE WITH DAVID, UKRAINE
IS IN TERRIBLE SHAPE IT
NEEDS 25 BILLION DOLLARS
IT'S A COUNTRY THAT HAS A
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT OF
$176 BILLION.
IT'S NOT A WEALTHY COUNTRY
AT 46 MILLION PEOPLE.
AND IF IT'S GOING TO COME,
JUDY, IT'S GOING TO COME
FROM THE WEST AND WITH
STRINGS ATTACHED JUST AS
GREECE Z PERHAPS NOT AS
SEVERE BUT THERE WILL BE USE
TERITY.
THEY HAVE AN OLD VALUE
CURRENCY, A COTOCRAY WITH
BUSINESS MOGULS CUTTING
DEALS WITH THE GOVERNMENT,
THE GOVERNMENT WITH THEM.
ACROSS THE GLOBE IN THE PAST
YEAR WE'VE SEEN DEMOCRACY
AFTER DEMOCRACY AND
DISAPPOINTMENT AFTER
DISAPPOINTMENT.
AND I THINK IS ONE WHERE
IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE THE
BEST EFFORTS AND THE
LONG-TERM STAMINA OF THE
WEST.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHAT ABOUT
THE MILITARY PIECE OF THIS?
THE FACT THAT THE RUSSIANS
ARE SENDING THEIR TROOPS IN,
THEY'RE SENDING MILITARY
EQUIPMENT IN, DAVID.
DOES THIS RISE TO A
DIFFERENT LEVEL?
I KNOW YOU'RE STRESSING THE
ECONOMY.
BOTH OF YOU.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE MILITARY?
>> THERE ARE TWO ELEMENTS OF
PUTIN'S PERSONALITY.
THE ONE IS THAT EVERYTHING
IS FOR SALE, ALL ABOUT
ORGANIZING CORRUPTION.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS HE'S
GOT TO PRABLYOB WORK ON IS
THE OLIGARCHES IN UKRAINE
OF THE ECONOMY,
ASSERT THE RUSSIAN OLIGARCHES
SO THAT IS ONE SIDE OF HIS
PERSONALITY.
THE SECOND SIDE OF HIS
PERSONALITY AND CRIES 'TIS
IN AFTER CRISIS IS THE
PSYCHOLOGY OF FEAR.
AND HE SAW HOW THE UKRAINE,
EVEN THE PEOPLE NOMINALLY ON
HIS SIDE WERE BASICALLY
RUNNING FOR THEIR LIVES IN
THE LAST COUPLE WEEKS.
AND SO HE'S GOING TO PUT THE
PRESSURE ON THE OTHER WAY.
AND THAT'S JUST THE WAY HE
ALWAYS IS.
THAT IS WHAT WE UNDERSTAND
ABOUT HIM, THAT HE'S AN
AUTOCRAT WHO BELIEVES IN
RULING BY FEAR.
SO HE'S BEGINNING TO
INSTALL-- INSTILL THE FEAR,
AND I THINK HE'S ON HIS BEST
BEHAVIOR BECAUSE OF THE
OLYMPIC BELOW.
CAN GET ROUGHER THAN THIS AS
WE SAW IN GEORGIA.
SO THE PEOPLE I SPEAK TO
EXPECT HIM THEY HAVE NO
ILLUSIONS ABOUT THE
CHARACTER OF THIS GUY.
THE U.S. POLICY, U.S.
ATTITUDES TOWARDS PUTIN
WITHIN THE ADMINISTRATION,
THE LAST TWO ADMINISTRATIONS
HAVE REALLY HARDENED TO AN
AMAZING DEGREE.
AND HE IS NOW SEEN AS A
NARCISSISTIC AUTO CRAT.
>> Woodruff: .
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS REALLY
AT STAKE HERE FOR THE UNITED
STATES?
>> WELL, THE IMPORTANCE OF
UKRAINE, ITS EUROPEAN
ENGAGEMENT, I MEAN I THINK
FOR THE FUTURE-- I THINK WE
HAVE TO ESTABLISH THE
PREMISE THAT HONEST,
FUNCTIONING, COMPETENT
DEMOCRACIES ARE GOOD FOR
WORLD PEACE, ARE GOOD FOR
THE PEOPLE OF THOSE
COUNTRIES, FIRST OF ALL.
AND THAT, UKRAINE HAS NOT
HAD THAT.
AND IT'S ONLY HOPE FOR THAT
EVOLVING, PAINFUL THOUGH IT
WILL BE IN ITS BIRTH IS IN
MY JUDGEMENT, THE UNITED
STATES AND THE EU WORKING
TOGETHER, AND BEING IN FOR
THE LONG HAUL.
>> BUT WHEN IT COMES TO
RUSSIA, THOUGH, TENSIONS
KEEP RISING.
WE'RE COUNTING ON THE
RUSSIANS IN SOME REGARD, IF
IRAN, IN SYRIA.
>> YEAH.
>> I MEAN IN A HOST OF
TROUBLED PARTS OF THE WORLD.
>> YEAH, IF YOU WANTED TO
VIEW THEM, THE BAD THINGS
THAT COULD HAPPEN, MENTIONED
EARLIER ON THE PROGRAM, JUST
THE POSSIBILITY OF MISSED
CALCULATION.
I NEVER THOUGHT ONE WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN EITHER.
YOU COULD HAVE
MISCALCULATIONS AND REALLY
HAD SOMETHING RECENTLY
TERRIBLE IF UKRAINE BREAKS
UP.
SO THERE'S THAT.
BUT AS YOU SAY, HE COULD SAY
YOU MESS WITH ME IN UKRAINE
I WILL REALLY MESS WITH YOU
AND THE PARTS YOU REALLY
CARE ABOUT, WHICH IS IRAN
AND SYRIA WHERE WE DO NEED
THEM.
I WOULD JUST GO BACK TO
PUTIN.
WE DEFINITELY NEED LONG-TERM
STABILITY STABILITY IN
CENTRAL EUROPE AND UKRAINE
AND COUNTRIES LIKE THAT.
BUT PUTIN IS A
HISTORY-MAKING INDIVIDUAL.
HE SEES HIMSELF AS SOMEONE
WHO IS SHAPING HISTORY.
AND PEOPLE LIKE THAT ARE
INHERENTLY DESTABILIZING.
SO HE IS THE HEAD OF REALLY
A FAILING COUNTRY WITH A LOT
OF POWER, A LOT OF MONEY,
AND ITCH TO DESTABILIZE THE
WORLD.
AND SO IT'S HIS STABILITY,
IT'S HIS EITHER RISE IN
POWER OR FLOW IN TO WE ARE
THAT MAYBE ULTIMATELY WAS AT
STAKE IN ONE OF THE WORLD'S
GREAT TROUBLEMAKERS.
>> Woodruff: LET'S BRING IT
BACK HOME AND TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED IN
THIS COUNTRY THIS WEEK,
MARK.
AND THAT IS ARIZONA ZIGZAG,
I GUESS YOU COULD SAY, WHERE
THE LEGISLATURE PASSED A LAW
SAYING, A BILL SAYING THAT
MERCHANTS, SERVICE PROVIDERS
COULD REFUSE TO PROVIDE A
SERVICE TO ANYONE WHO IS
GAY.
NOW THE GOVERNOR, JAN BREWER,
REPUBLICAN, VETOED THIS.
WHAT DOES IT ALL ADD UP TO?
>> WELL, AMERICAN CIVIL
LIBERTIES UNION, ACLU, THE
ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE, ADL,
ADD TO THAT APPLE, MARRIOTT,
DELTA AIRLINES, AMERICAN
AIRLINES, MARRIOTT HOTELS,
STARWOOD HOTELS, THE LOSS OF
ANY STANDING FOR ARIZONA AS
A RESORT, A CONVENTION
CENTER, WAS ON THE TABLE.
AND JAN BREWER UNDERSTOOD
THIS.
IT WAS-- THE OLD BIBLICAL
INJUNCTION RENDER INTO
CAESAR THAT WHICH IS
CAESARS.
THIS WAS NOT GOD'S, THIS WAS
CAESAR.
THIS MIGHT HAVE BEEN FREEDOM
OF RELIGION ON THE PART O
OF-- RELIGIOUS FREE
DONE-- FREEDOM ON THE PART
OF THIS LEGISLATION BUT THIS
CAME RIGHT DOWN TO ARIZONA
FACING THE SAME IGNOMIY AND
LOSS OF CAPITAL THAT IT
FACED ON MARTIN LUTHER KING
DAY WHEN IT REFUSED TO
ACCEPT MARTIN LUTHER KING
DAY AS A NATIONAL HOLIDAY
AND AGAIN LOST CONVENTION
BUSINESS.
I THINK IT WAS A PRETTY
TACTICAL, HARDHEADED
DECISION MADE.
AND MITT ROMNEY TO HIS
CREDIT WEIGHING IN IN FAVOR
OF VETOING IT.
>> Woodruff: ALONG WITH
ARIZONA TWO SENATORS IT IS
NOT JUST ARIZONA, BUT THERE
ARE SIX OTHER STATES
CONSIDERING SIMILAR
LEGISLATION.
>> WELL, I DID DECLARE MY
INTEREST, HOPEFULLY WE WILL
SEE THIS RESOLVE.
WHAT IS INTERESTING IS THE
REA SORTION OF THE CORPORATE
COUNTRY CLUB ESTABLISHMENT
THAT IS WHAT REALLY RALLIED
HERE AND REALLY CHANGED THE
BILL.
THIS IS AN ESTABLISHMENT
THAT HAS BEEN LOSS POG WE
ARE TO THE TEA PARTY, IN
PART AS MY COLLEAGUE GAIL
POINTED OUT BECAUSE OF THE
CAMPAIGN-FINANCE REFORM THAT
MADE IT HARD FOR THE BIG
DONORS TO CONTROL THE PARTY
AND MADE IT EASY FOR THE TEA
PARTY, BUT SO THIS WAS A
REASSERTION OF MORE OR LESS
THE CORPORATE ELITE.
AND SAYING DON'T DO THIS TO
OUR STATE.
AND THEY CARRIED THE DAY.
AND WHAT IS I THINK USEFUL
IS A LOT OF THE SMALL
MARGINAL GROUPS OFTEN SOME
OF THE TEA PARTIES OR SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS OFF ON
THE FRINGES HAVE HAD THEIR
WAY BECAUSE THE PEOPLE IN
THE ESTABLISHMENT CENTER
HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO SLAP
THEM DOWN.
AND HERE WAS A CASE WHERE
THEY DID THAT.
FACING RUINOUS ECONOMIC
CAUSE AND I CAN'T SEE WHY
OTHER STATES WOULDN'T FACE
THE SAME LOGIC AND WOULD NOT
TRY TO MOBILIZE.
IF YOU THINK THE SENATOR
NEEDS TO MOBILIZE AGAINST
THE FRINGES, THIS WOULD BE A
GOOD SIGN.
>> ALL RIGHT THIS IS A FUN
SUBJECT, TAX REFORM.
MARK, THE REPUBLICAN
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE WAYS &
MEANS COMMITTEE TODAY ROLLED
OUT WHAT WOULD BE A PRETTY
DRAMATIC CHANGE IN THE TAX
CODE, GETTING US DOWN TO
THREE RATES, REALLY, 10, 25,
35.
BUT THE LEADERSHIP,
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
LEADERSHIP BASICALLY SAID
IT'S TO THE GOING ANYWHERE.
>> I WOULD SAY FIRST OF ALL
TWO CHEERS FOR DAVE CAMP.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF TALK FROM
THIS GUY A LOT OF SEMINARS,
A LOT OF FOCUS GROUPS, A LOT
OF THESIS WRITTEN ON THE
SUBJECT OF TAX REFORM.
BUT WE HAVEN'T HAD A
COMMITTEE  ANYDOTHING.
AND DAVE CAMP, REPUBLICAN,
HIS LAST YEAR, CHAIRMAN OF
THE WAYS & MEANS COMMITTEE
DID, IN FACT, PRODUCE A
DOCUMENT, WHICH ESY
IN IT DAVE CAMP SAID TO
THOSE BANKS, CITIGROUP AND
GOLDMAN SACHS, THOSE
STRUGGLING MOM AND POP SHOPS
THAT WERE BAILED OUT BY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, THAT HE
WOULD IMPOSE A TAX UPON
THEM.
A SLIGHT TAX BUT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT REPUBLICANS
DON'T DO.
HAVEN'T VOTED FOR A SINGLE
TAX SINCE 1993, BEFORE 1993,
STARTING WITH BILL CLINTON.
SO YOU KNOW, I THOUGHT
SHOWED IMAGINATION.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT'S NOT
GOING ANYWHERE.
>> I WAS VERY DISAPPOINTED
IN THE SPEAKER'S REACTION,
BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, WHICH
WAS-- AN INSULT TO SOMEBODY
THAT SPENT SOME REAL WORK ON
IT, NO, IT ISN'T GOING TO GO
ANYWHERE, JUDY, BECAUSE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS TAKES A
GESTATION PERIOD OF THREE,
FOUR YEARS AND A LOT OF
WORK.
DAVE CAMP BEGAN THE WORK.
>> READY FOR MARK'S SMEAR ON
SEMINARS.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A GOOD STEP
FORWARD.
LIKE MARK, IT'S A STEP.
AT HE NOT GOING TO PASS, BUT
IT'S A STEP.
AND A STEP FOR SOME OF THE
REASONS MARK SAID.
BUTS IT WAS A REPUBLICAN
PLAN THAT PRESERVED THE
PROGRESSIVITY OF THE TAX
CODE AND MAYBE EVEN
INCREASED IT A LITTLE.
AND A PLAN THAT IS REVENUE
NEUTRAL BUT A PLAN THAT
WOULD PRODUCE AMAZING
ECONOMIC BENEFITS IF
ENACTED.
IF THE DEMOCRATS WANT TO
COME IN AND SAY WE'LL ADOPT
A SIMILAR STRATEGY, MAYBE WE
WANT A LITTLE MORE REVENUE,
THEN YOU REALLY COULD BEGIN
TO HAVE A NEGOTIATION OR AT
LEAST YOU WOULD IF WE LIVED
IN A NORMAL POLITICAL
SYSTEM.
BUT I THOUGHT IT WAS, AS
MARK SAID THERE IS A LOT OF
POLITICAL OPPOSITION TO
THIS.
WHY SHOULD WE PUT OUT A PLAN
CUTTING SOMEBODY'S MORTGAGE
INTEREST DEDUCTION BEFORE AN
ELECTION WHEN IT'S NOT GOING
TO PASS ANYWAY SO HE DID THE
RIGHT THING IN FUINGT OUT
THERE AND GETTING THIS
DEBATE GOING ANOTHER STEP
FORWARD SO I AGREE WITH
MARK.
I THINK IT WAS AN
OUTSTANDING STEP.
>> Woodruff: MAYBE WE HAVE
TIME FOR TWO THINGS.
ONE IS THE PRESIDENT ROLLING
OUT THIS PROGRAM THIS WEEK
CALLED MY BROTHER'S KEEPER,
ALL ABOUT MARK YOUNGMAN,-- A
QOUNING MAN OF COLOR SAYING
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING, A
LOT COMING FROM ITS PRIVATE
SECTOR BUT DOING SOMETHING
ABOUT YOUNG MEN WHO JUST
HAVE NOT HAD A WAY UP ITS
LADDER AS THE PRESIDENT PUT
IT?
>> YOU KNOW, I THOUGHT IT
WAS PITCH PERFECT FOR THE
PRESIDENT.
THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT HE
SPOKE ABOUT FROM THE VERY
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE,
PERSONAL ANGLE.
HE SPOKE TO THE YOUNG MEN IN
THE ROOM.
AUTS OWE GUY-- AUTO BUY
GRAPHICALLY ABOUT HIS OWN,
HAVING GOTTEN HIGH AND NOT
DONE WELL IN SCHOOL AND ALL
THE REST OF IT.
SO SOMEBODY WHO HAS
CRITICIZED OFTEN EVEN BY HIS
OWN SUPPORTERS AS BEING TOO
COOL, TOO DISTANCE, TOO
DETACHED, I THOUGHT IT
SHOWED A VERY WELCOME
PASSION ON A SUBJECT IN
WHICH HE HAS, IN MY
JUDGEMENT, A UNIQUE
STANDING.
>> I WOULD SAY WHAT IT DOES,
PEOPLE SAY OH, THERE'S NO
MONEY, IT'S ALL PRIVATE
SECTOR.
BUT IT DOES A COUPLE OF
THINGS.
FIRST IT BEGINS TO MOBILIZE
A COALITION ON BEHALF FOR
SOME OF THESE PROGRAMS THE
NEXT PRESIDENT CAN USE.
AND THE SECOND THING IS
THERE WILL BE A LOT OF
TESTING AND STUDYING TO FIND
OUT WHAT WORKS AND GATHERING
OF THAT INFORMATION SO I
THINK IT'S NOT HUGE BUT IT
PLAYS THE PREDICATE FOR SOME
POLICIES FOR THE NEXT
PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: GWEN HAD A
WONDERFUL REPORT THIS WEEK
TALKING TO SOME OF THESE
YOUNG MEN.
IT REALLY IS, IT REALLY DOES
GIVE YOU HOPE.
>> YEAH.
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROOKS,
MARK SHIELDS, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE CRISIS IN CRIMEA DEEPENED,
WITH ARMED MEN SEIZING AIRPORTS
AND OTHER KEY SITES.
IT WAS REPORTED THAT U.S.
OFFICIALS SEE SIGNS THAT RUSSIA
IS INTERVENING MILITARILY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED MOSCOW
AGAINST ANY MILITARY MOVE
AGAINST UKRAINE.
HE SAID THERE WOULD BE
UNSPECIFIED COSTS.
AND SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA BRACED
FOR MAJOR MUDSLIDES AS A
POWERFUL STORM BROUGHT
DOWNPOURS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, OUR VICE WEEK SERIES
CONTINUES WITH WRATH.
WE EXAMINE WHY INTERNET USERS
CHANNEL THEIR ANGER ONLINE AND
ASK, DOES IT PROVIDE ANY
EMOTIONAL RELIEF TO RANT IN A
COMMENTS SECTION?
TELL US WHAT YOU THINK.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
WASHINGTON WEEK, WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING. HERE'S A
PREVIEW.
>> WE WILL BE COVERING
QUICKLY CHANGING
DEVELOPMENTS THIS WEEK IN
UKRAINE.
LEGAL ACTION ON GAY RIGHTS.
RETIREMENTS IN CONGRESS.
AND A PRIVATE SECTOR
INITIATIVE TO TAKE ON A
PUBLIC CHALLENGE.
SEE YOU LATER TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND LOOKS AT
A PROGRAM THAT BUILDS
GREENHOUSES IN NEW YORK CITY
SCHOOLS, WHICH GROW PLANTS IN
WATER INSTEAD OF SOIL, TO TEACH
SCIENCE AND SUSTAINABILITY.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
BEFORE WE GO WE WANT TO BID A
VERY FOND FAREWELL TO A LONG-
TIME MEMBER OF THE NEWSHOUR
FAMILY, KWAME HOLMAN.
KWAME IS LEAVING US AFTER MORE
THAN THREE DECADES SPENT
COVERING A WIDE RANGE OF
STORIES, EVERYTHING FROM THE
DECLINE OF THE FAMILY FARM TO
THE END OF THE A-10 WARTHOG.
HE'S SETTING UP HIS OWN
PRODUCTION COMPANY, AND, FINGERS
CROSSED, OUR PATHS WILL CROSS
AGAIN.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A GREAT
WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOODNIGHT